README.md, before:

# CLP (CLI Proxy) — Local AI Proxy Toolkit

## Overview

CLP is a local CLI proxy that manages and forwards API requests to AI providers such as Claude and Codex. It offers one command-line entry to start/stop/manage multiple proxy services, a multi‑config manager, and a Web UI for monitoring.

## Highlights
- Dynamic config switching in CLI/UI without restarting your client; chat context is preserved
- Request filtering to redact sensitive values before they leave your machine
- Multi‑provider support; switch relay endpoints without rewriting client config files
- Token usage accounting and per‑request logging
- Model routing rules to rewrite model names or pick configs by model
- Load balancing/“account pool” with failure‑aware fallback

## UI Preview

<img width="1145" height="1270" alt="chrome_JrEYQkydwH" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e182b9ea-cc35-4b4e-9d97-659e218af524" />

## Features

### Core
- Two proxy services: Claude (port 3210) and Codex (port 3211)
- Web UI (port 3300) with live request logs and usage stats
- Streaming responses (SSE/NDJSON) passthrough
- Built‑in request filters and usage extraction

### Monitoring
- Live status and request/response logs
- Usage metrics by channel and service
- Config health and switch history

## Tech Stack

- Python 3.8+ (3.11 recommended)
- FastAPI (proxy), Flask (UI)
- httpx (async HTTP), uvicorn (ASGI), psutil (process control)

## Project Layout

```
src/
├── main.py                      # CLI entry (clp)
├── core/
│   └── base_proxy.py           # Shared proxy core
├── claude/
│   ├── configs.py              # Claude config accessors
│   ├── ctl.py                  # Claude controller
│   └── proxy.py                # Claude proxy
├── codex/
│   ├── configs.py              # Codex config accessors
│   ├── ctl.py                  # Codex controller
│   └── proxy.py                # Codex proxy
├── config/
│   ├── config_manager.py       # JSON config manager (~/.clp/*.json)
│   └── cached_config_manager.py
├── filter/
│   ├── request_filter.py       # Plain filter
│   └── cached_request_filter.py
├── ui/
│   ├── ctl.py                  # UI controller
│   ├── ui_server.py            # Flask UI server
│   └── static/                 # Frontend assets
└── utils/
    ├── platform_helper.py
    └── usage_parser.py
```

## Quick Start (uv)

### Install
```bash
# Create a virtualenv with uv and install the project in editable mode
uv venv .venv
uv pip install -e . -p .venv

# Start all services (Claude 3210, Codex 3211, UI 3300)
uv run -p .venv clp start
```

If you updated the package, restart the services:
```bash
uv run -p .venv clp restart
```

### CLI Commands
```bash
clp start     # start Claude, Codex, and UI
clp stop      # stop all services
clp restart   # restart all services
clp status    # show status
clp ui        # launch the Web UI (port 3300)

# List and switch configurations
clp list claude
clp list codex
clp active claude prod
clp active codex dev
```

## Using with Claude Code (VS Code)
1) Create `~/.claude/settings.json` to point the extension at the local proxy:
```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "-",
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "http://127.0.0.1:3210",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_MAX_OUTPUT_TOKENS": "32000",
    "MAX_THINKING_TOKENS": "30000",
    "DISABLE_AUTOUPDATER": "1"
  },
  "permissions": { "allow": [], "deny": [] }
}
```
2) Restart Claude Code after `clp start`.

## Using with Codex CLI (OpenAI “Responses” API)

The Codex proxy supports OpenAI’s Responses wire protocol and works with custom base URLs.

What we verified (October 11, 2025)
- Endpoint shape: POST `/responses` with `Accept: text/event-stream` and header `OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental` is forwarded as‑is.
- SSE streaming: Events pass through to the client (e.g., `response.created`, `in_progress`).
- GACCode compatibility: Tested against `https://gaccode.com/codex/v1` and received HTTP 200 with streaming events.

### Configure Codex CLI to use this proxy
Edit `~/.codex/config.toml`:
```properties
model_provider = "local"
model = "gpt-5-codex"          # or "gpt-5"
model_reasoning_effort = "high"
model_reasoning_summary_format = "experimental"
network_access = "enabled"
disable_response_storage = true
show_raw_agent_reasoning = true

[model_providers.local]
name = "local"
base_url = "http://127.0.0.1:3211"
wire_api = "responses"
```

### Add an upstream Codex endpoint (GACCode) to the proxy
Create or edit `~/.clp/codex.json` and add a config (you can manage these in the UI as well):
```json
{
  "gaccode": {
    "base_url": "https://gaccode.com/codex/v1",
    "auth_token": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_TOKEN",
    "active": true
  }
}
```
Then:
```bash
uv run -p .venv clp restart
clp active codex gaccode
```

### GACCode specifics (what the proxy now handles for you)
- Path rewrite: if the client calls `/responses` and your upstream `base_url` is `https://gaccode.com/codex`, the proxy forwards to `/v1/responses` automatically.
- Streaming + beta header: the proxy forces `Accept: text/event-stream` and `OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental` so Responses streaming always works.
- No compression for SSE: the proxy sets `Accept-Encoding: identity` to avoid `zstd/gzip` compressed event streams that some clients can’t decode.
- Minimal valid body: if a client omits Responses fields, the proxy backfills `store=false`, `stream=true`, and a safe CLI-style `instructions` block.
- Unsupported fields filter: some clients inject optional keys (e.g., `max_output_tokens`, `service_tier`). The proxy removes fields GACCode rejects to prevent `400 Unsupported parameter`.

### Optional: map local model names to upstream names
If your client uses `gpt-5-codex` but the upstream expects `gpt-5-codes`, open the Web UI → Model Router and add a Model→Model mapping for Codex:
- source: `gpt-5-codex`
- target: `gpt-5-codes`

### Quick connectivity tests
Using curl (through the local proxy):
```bash
curl -N \
  -H 'Accept: text/event-stream' \
  -H 'OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
        "model":"gpt-5",
        "input":[{"type":"message","role":"user","content":[{"type":"text","text":"hi"}]}]
      }' \
  http://127.0.0.1:3211/responses
```

Using the built‑in probe (UI → Test Connection), or programmatically calling `CodexProxy.test_endpoint()`.

### Default reasoning settings (UI)

Open the Web UI → **Model Settings (Codex)** to choose per-model defaults for reasoning behaviour:

- **Reasoning Effort** (low/medium/high for both GPT‑5 and GPT‑5‑Codex; GPT‑5 additionally offers *minimal*).
- **Response Detail** (maps to `text.verbosity` low/medium/high).
- **Reasoning Summary** (`off`, `auto`, or `detailed`). `auto` is currently the default for GPT‑5 series and yields the best summary available for the model.

The proxy persists these choices in `~/.clp/data/system.json` and injects them automatically when clients omit the corresponding fields. Unsupported combinations are sanitized (for example, GPT‑5‑Codex never sends `reasoning.effort=minimal`).

## Factory/Droid BYOK (works with the proxy)

Example `~/.factory/config.json` entry pointing at the local proxy:
```json
{
  "custom_models": [
    {
      "model_display_name": "GPT-5",
      "model": "gpt-5",
      "base_url": "http://127.0.0.1:3211",
      "api_key": "sk-local-proxy-anything",
      "provider": "openai",
      "max_tokens": 400000,
      "extra_headers": {
        "OpenAI-Beta": "responses=experimental",
        "Accept": "text/event-stream"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Notes:
- Keep the upstream in `~/.clp/codex.json` as `https://gaccode.com/codex` (no `/v1`); Droid’s `/v1/responses` → proxy → `…/v1/responses` is handled automatically.
- If the client can’t add headers, the proxy now injects the Responses/SSE headers for you.

## Troubleshooting

- 401 Unauthorized
  - Most common cause: key in the wrong place. Put your real key under `auth_token` in `~/.clp/codex.json`. The proxy injects `Authorization: Bearer …` upstream. Your client can use any dummy key.

- 200 but no visible answer
  - Previously caused by compressed SSE (`content-encoding: zstd`) or missing Responses headers; the proxy now forces identity encoding and adds headers. If a UI still doesn’t render, use the helper below to confirm streaming works.

- 400 Unsupported parameter: max_output_tokens (or similar)
  - The proxy now drops unsupported optional fields for `/responses`. If you still see this, open the request row in the UI and verify the request body after filtering.

### Helper endpoints (for quick, curl‑only checks)

- Build a valid Responses body and headers:
  - `POST /api/codex/build-body` with `{ "prompt": "hi", "model": "gpt-5" }` → returns `{ json, headers }` you can pipe to `curl`.
- Send and show the first SSE lines end‑to‑end:
  - `POST /api/codex/quick-send` with `{ "prompt": "hi", "model": "gpt-5", "max_lines": 40 }` → `{ status_code, lines }`.

These helpers hit the local proxy and confirm that upstream credentials, path, and streaming are healthy.

## Configuration Files
CLP stores configs under `~/.clp/`:
- `~/.clp/claude.json` — Claude service configs
- `~/.clp/codex.json` — Codex service configs
- `~/.clp/run/` — runtime files (PID, logs)
- `~/.clp/data/` — logs and usage stats (jsonl)

## Request Filters
Create `~/.clp/filter.json` rules to redact/replace sensitive values before forwarding. See `src/filter/request_filter.py` for the replace/remove operations supported.

## Model Routing and Load Balancing
- Model routing: map model→model or model→config in the Web UI; requests are rewritten before forwarding.
- Load balancing: weight‑based or active‑first with failure thresholds; failed configs are temporarily excluded.

## License

MIT License

## Author

gjp

---

Note: On first run, the proxy may start in a placeholder state. Add at least one upstream config in the UI or in `~/.clp/*.json`, then restart services.

Commit message:

Fix Claude proxy handshake and document changes

README.md, after:

# CLP (CLI Proxy) — Local AI Proxy Toolkit

## Overview

CLP is a local CLI proxy that manages and forwards API requests to AI providers such as Claude and Codex. It offers one command-line entry to start/stop/manage multiple proxy services, a multi‑config manager, and a Web UI for monitoring.

## Highlights
- Dynamic config switching in CLI/UI without restarting your client; chat context is preserved
- Request filtering to redact sensitive values before they leave your machine
- Multi‑provider support; switch relay endpoints without rewriting client config files
- Token usage accounting and per‑request logging
- Model routing rules to rewrite model names or pick configs by model
- Load balancing/“account pool” with failure‑aware fallback

## UI Preview

<img width="1145" height="1270" alt="chrome_JrEYQkydwH" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e182b9ea-cc35-4b4e-9d97-659e218af524" />

## Features

### Core
- Two proxy services: Claude (port 3210) and Codex (port 3211)
- Web UI (port 3300) with live request logs and usage stats
- Streaming responses (SSE/NDJSON) passthrough
- Built‑in request filters and usage extraction

### Monitoring
- Live status and request/response logs
- Usage metrics by channel and service
- Config health and switch history

## Tech Stack

- Python 3.8+ (3.11 recommended)
- FastAPI (proxy), Flask (UI)
- httpx (async HTTP), uvicorn (ASGI), psutil (process control)

## Project Layout

```
src/
├── main.py                      # CLI entry (clp)
├── core/
│   └── base_proxy.py           # Shared proxy core
├── claude/
│   ├── configs.py              # Claude config accessors
│   ├── ctl.py                  # Claude controller
│   └── proxy.py                # Claude proxy
├── codex/
│   ├── configs.py              # Codex config accessors
│   ├── ctl.py                  # Codex controller
│   └── proxy.py                # Codex proxy
├── config/
│   ├── config_manager.py       # JSON config manager (~/.clp/*.json)
│   └── cached_config_manager.py
├── filter/
│   ├── request_filter.py       # Plain filter
│   └── cached_request_filter.py
├── ui/
│   ├── ctl.py                  # UI controller
│   ├── ui_server.py            # Flask UI server
│   └── static/                 # Frontend assets
└── utils/
    ├── platform_helper.py
    └── usage_parser.py
```

## Quick Start (uv)

### Install
```bash
# Create a virtualenv with uv and install the project in editable mode
uv venv .venv
uv pip install -e . -p .venv

# Start all services (Claude 3210, Codex 3211, UI 3300)
uv run -p .venv clp start
```

If you updated the package, restart the services:
```bash
uv run -p .venv clp restart
```

### CLI Commands
```bash
clp start     # start Claude, Codex, and UI
clp stop      # stop all services
clp restart   # restart all services
clp status    # show status
clp ui        # launch the Web UI (port 3300)

# List and switch configurations
clp list claude
clp list codex
clp active claude prod
clp active codex dev
```

## Using with Claude Code (VS Code)
1) Create `~/.claude/settings.json` to point the extension at the local proxy:
```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "-",
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "http://127.0.0.1:3210",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_MAX_OUTPUT_TOKENS": "32000",
    "MAX_THINKING_TOKENS": "30000",
    "DISABLE_AUTOUPDATER": "1"
  },
  "permissions": { "allow": [], "deny": [] }
}
```
2) Restart Claude Code after `clp start`.

### What the Claude proxy adds for you
- **Header normalisation:** requests are forwarded with the same header shape used by the official Claude Code CLI (e.g. `claude-cli/2.0.15` user agent, canonical `x-stainless-*` values, `Accept-Language: *`). This avoids “credential only authorised for Claude Code” errors on providers such as GACCode.
- **Automatic `metadata.user_id`:** if the client omits the Claude-specific metadata block, the proxy injects a stable placeholder so upstream APIs still treat the call as coming from Claude Code.
- **Bearer sanitising:** when an `x-api-key` is present the proxy strips any `Authorization: Bearer …` header, matching the behaviour of the real CLI and preventing key-scope validation failures.

## Using with Codex CLI (OpenAI “Responses” API)

The Codex proxy supports OpenAI’s Responses wire protocol and works with custom base URLs.

What we verified (October 11, 2025)
- Endpoint shape: POST `/responses` with `Accept: text/event-stream` and header `OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental` is forwarded as‑is.
- SSE streaming: Events pass through to the client (e.g., `response.created`, `in_progress`).
- GACCode compatibility: Tested against `https://gaccode.com/codex/v1` and received HTTP 200 with streaming events.

### Configure Codex CLI to use this proxy
Edit `~/.codex/config.toml`:
```properties
model_provider = "local"
model = "gpt-5-codex"          # or "gpt-5"
model_reasoning_effort = "high"
model_reasoning_summary_format = "experimental"
network_access = "enabled"
disable_response_storage = true
show_raw_agent_reasoning = true

[model_providers.local]
name = "local"
base_url = "http://127.0.0.1:3211"
wire_api = "responses"
```

### Add an upstream Codex endpoint (GACCode) to the proxy
Create or edit `~/.clp/codex.json` and add a config (you can manage these in the UI as well):
```json
{
  "gaccode": {
    "base_url": "https://gaccode.com/codex/v1",
    "auth_token": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_TOKEN",
    "active": true
  }
}
```
Then:
```bash
uv run -p .venv clp restart
clp active codex gaccode
```

### GACCode specifics (what the proxy now handles for you)
- Path rewrite: if the client calls `/responses` and your upstream `base_url` is `https://gaccode.com/codex`, the proxy forwards to `/v1/responses` automatically.
- Streaming + beta header: the proxy forces `Accept: text/event-stream` and `OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental` so Responses streaming always works.
- No compression for SSE: the proxy sets `Accept-Encoding: identity` to avoid `zstd/gzip` compressed event streams that some clients can’t decode.
- Minimal valid body: if a client omits Responses fields, the proxy backfills `store=false`, `stream=true`, and a safe CLI-style `instructions` block.
- Unsupported fields filter: some clients inject optional keys (e.g., `max_output_tokens`, `service_tier`). The proxy removes fields GACCode rejects to prevent `400 Unsupported parameter`.

### Optional: map local model names to upstream names
If your client uses `gpt-5-codex` but the upstream expects `gpt-5-codes`, open the Web UI → Model Router and add a Model→Model mapping for Codex:
- source: `gpt-5-codex`
- target: `gpt-5-codes`

### Quick connectivity tests
Using curl (through the local proxy):
```bash
curl -N \
  -H 'Accept: text/event-stream' \
  -H 'OpenAI-Beta: responses=experimental' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
        "model":"gpt-5",
        "input":[{"type":"message","role":"user","content":[{"type":"text","text":"hi"}]}]
      }' \
  http://127.0.0.1:3211/responses
```

Using the built‑in probe (UI → Test Connection), or programmatically calling `CodexProxy.test_endpoint()`.

### Default reasoning settings (UI)

Open the Web UI → **Model Settings (Codex)** to choose per-model defaults for reasoning behaviour:

- **Reasoning Effort** (low/medium/high for both GPT‑5 and GPT‑5‑Codex; GPT‑5 additionally offers *minimal*).
- **Response Detail** (maps to `text.verbosity` low/medium/high).
- **Reasoning Summary** (`off`, `auto`, or `detailed`). `auto` is currently the default for GPT‑5 series and yields the best summary available for the model.

The proxy persists these choices in `~/.clp/data/system.json` and injects them automatically when clients omit the corresponding fields. Unsupported combinations are sanitized (for example, GPT‑5‑Codex never sends `reasoning.effort=minimal`).

## Factory/Droid BYOK (works with the proxy)

Example `~/.factory/config.json` entry pointing at the local proxy:
```json
{
  "custom_models": [
    {
      "model_display_name": "GPT-5",
      "model": "gpt-5",
      "base_url": "http://127.0.0.1:3211",
      "api_key": "sk-local-proxy-anything",
      "provider": "openai",
      "max_tokens": 400000,
      "extra_headers": {
        "OpenAI-Beta": "responses=experimental",
        "Accept": "text/event-stream"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Notes:
- Keep the upstream in `~/.clp/codex.json` as `https://gaccode.com/codex` (no `/v1`); Droid’s `/v1/responses` → proxy → `…/v1/responses` is handled automatically.
- If the client can’t add headers, the proxy now injects the Responses/SSE headers for you.

## Troubleshooting

- 401 Unauthorized
  - Most common cause: key in the wrong place. Put your real key under `auth_token` in `~/.clp/codex.json`. The proxy injects `Authorization: Bearer …` upstream. Your client can use any dummy key.

- 200 but no visible answer
  - Previously caused by compressed SSE (`content-encoding: zstd`) or missing Responses headers; the proxy now forces identity encoding and adds headers. If a UI still doesn’t render, use the helper below to confirm streaming works.

- 400 Unsupported parameter: max_output_tokens (or similar)
  - The proxy now drops unsupported optional fields for `/responses`. If you still see this, open the request row in the UI and verify the request body after filtering.

### Helper endpoints (for quick, curl‑only checks)

- Build a valid Responses body and headers:
  - `POST /api/codex/build-body` with `{ "prompt": "hi", "model": "gpt-5" }` → returns `{ json, headers }` you can pipe to `curl`.
- Send and show the first SSE lines end‑to‑end:
  - `POST /api/codex/quick-send` with `{ "prompt": "hi", "model": "gpt-5", "max_lines": 40 }` → `{ status_code, lines }`.

These helpers hit the local proxy and confirm that upstream credentials, path, and streaming are healthy.

## Configuration Files
CLP stores configs under `~/.clp/`:
- `~/.clp/claude.json` — Claude service configs
- `~/.clp/codex.json` — Codex service configs
- `~/.clp/run/` — runtime files (PID, logs)
- `~/.clp/data/` — logs and usage stats (jsonl)

## Request Filters
Create `~/.clp/filter.json` rules to redact/replace sensitive values before forwarding. See `src/filter/request_filter.py` for the replace/remove operations supported.

## Model Routing and Load Balancing
- Model routing: map model→model or model→config in the Web UI; requests are rewritten before forwarding.
- Load balancing: weight‑based or active‑first with failure thresholds; failed configs are temporarily excluded.

## License

MIT License

## Author

gjp

---

Note: On first run, the proxy may start in a placeholder state. Add at least one upstream config in the UI or in `~/.clp/*.json`, then restart services.
